when data is sent over the internet, electric signals are sent through metal,
plastic or air. This results in common errors

Noise is the distortion that outside influences cause to signals that are trying
to be sent. All signals pick up some noise. Waves are not a perfect line. These
signals should still be readable, but if there is too much noise, it can be read
as a different value than what was sent.

Poor connections:
Some old network cables can be slower and when signals pass across them, they
can distort it and cause errors. However, modern day cables are high quality and
have very fast connections.

Crosstalk Errors
Signals can interfere with each other, especially if they are travelling along
cables that are close to each other, this can cause distortion.

Detecting Errors:

Checksums:
Data is sent across a network in an encoded form, in 1s and 0s.Checksums are
arithmetic processes performed on the bits that comprise the data. They produce
a result that can be sent along with the message that the receiver can check. To
make sure that it is the same data sent. A small change can result in a large
difference of the checksum calculation.

A common type of Checksums is a parity bits checksum. The sender counts how many
1s and 0s are in the message. There are two types, even and odd, in even, it
will check if the number of 1s are even. If it has an odd amount already, the
parity bit will be set to 1, making the amount even. If it is already even and
the parity bit will be 0 and it ensures the count of 1s is odd.
This means a quick check of data that comes in. However, it is not always right,
if two bits are incorrect, it will appear as correct.

How to deal with errors:
When an error message is detected, there is not much that can be done, so you
must ask for data to be resent. The most common error correction method is
automatic repeat requests, it dictates how when and how repeats happen, the
process is universal. It doesn't have to come from the receiving computer, but
any one along the journey that the data takes. Checksums need to be quick so
all of the computers and network switches can check if the data is correct that
they are receiving. This results in error detection and correction being
distributed so it is faster.

Forward error correction or FEC:

FEC is a error correction method that detects and corrects a number of errors
in transmitted data (without retransmission). The sends sends a redundant error
correcting code along with the data. If it finds that the data is free from
errors, it executes error-correcting code that generates the actual frame. It
then removes the redundant bits before passing the message to the upper layers.
